## Website Performance Optimization portfolio project

This is my version of the Udacity Website Performance Optimization project, forked from [here](https://github.com/udacity/frontend-nanodegree-mobile-portfolio)

### Getting started
To get started, check out [this link](https://ohthatsteve.github.io/ud-optimize-project/).  If you 
are forking this repo, use the following steps to install and make use of the task runner.

1. In your terminal, navigate to the top folder of the project directory
2. Run `npm install`
3. Now you are able to use the gulp tasks defined in `gulpfile.js` (Note: All of these commands target files in `/src` and `/src/views` and stores them in `/dist`.  If you want to run the task for files in `/src` or `/src/views` but not the other, prefix the command with `main-` or `view-`.  (i.e. `main-critical` or `view-images`)
  * `gulp scripts` minifies javascripts.
  * `gulp styles` minifies CSS.
  * `gulp html` removes whitespace from html files.
  * `gulp critical` attempts to inline critical-path CSS.
  * `gulp images` compresses images.

###Overview of Files

####Index.html overview

On the initial page load of `index.html`, you will be presented with a short description of myself as well as 4 links to pages generated by Udacity.
The last link, Cam's Pizzeria, will take you to `pizza.html`, where most of the magic happens. 

####Pizza.html overview

This is a project page for a fake pizzeria.  This page features pizza images that move across the background, as well as pizza images that change sizes depending on the users size selection.  Both of these actions are done by javascript found in `views/js/main.js`.  This file had a few optimization issues that I have attempted to fix, and are outlined below.

####Main.js optimizations 

* In the function changePizzaSizes, `document.querySelectorAll` was running multiple times inside a `for` loop, causing performance issues.  To fix this, I now :   
  - Run `querySelectorAll` once to create an array of randomPizzaContainers.
  - Go through a switch to determine the new width of the pizzas.
  - Run a `for` loop, updating the width of all the random pizzas.
  - Remove heavy and unnessesary `determineDX` call.
  - Create local variable for the length of the randomPizzas array.  This is used in the `for` loop.

* In the function updatePositions, the formula to determine the path of the moving pizzas was calling `document.body.scrollTop` inside of a `for`loop, causing heavy jank. To fix this, I now:
  - Wrap all the movement code in a `requestAnimationFrame`.
  - Store `document.body.scrollTop` in a variable outside of the `for` loop.
  - Declare `phase` as a variable in the initialisation of the `for` loop.
  - Create local variable for the length of the items array.  This is used in the `for` loop.

* The eventListener for DOMContentLoaded was creating way more moving pizza elements than needed.  To fix this, I now:
  - Store the height of the screen as a local variable
  - Calculate the number of required rows by dividing the screen height by the image height.
  - Calculate the number of required pizzas by multiplying the number of columns by the number of rows.
  - Declare `elem` variable in the initialisation of the `for` loop.


* In the functions changeSliderLabel and determineDx I changed `querySelector` to `getElementById`.

* In the functions changePizzaSizes and updatePositions I changed `querySelectorAll` to `getElementByClassName`.

* Move the variable pizzaDiv outside of the `for` loop it was inside of.


####Known issues

1. When running `gulp view-critical`, there is repitition in the inline styles and style.css. 